DEV: add new vector set data type and command pages (#1334)
redis/docs: content/develop/data-types/vector-sets/troubleshooting.md

---
categories:
- docs
- develop
- stack
- rs
- rc
- oss
- kubernetes
- clients
description: Diagnose and debug issues when working with Redis vector sets
linkTitle: Troubleshooting
title: Troubleshooting
weight: 30
---

## Common challenges

Vector sets are approximate by design. That makes debugging trickier than with exact match queries. This section helps you understand issues with recall, filtering, and graph structure.

## Low recall or missing results

If [`VSIM`]({{< relref "/commands/vsim" >}}) doesn't return expected items:

- Increase the `EF` parameter:

  ```bash
  VSIM myset VALUES 3 ... COUNT 10 EF 1000
  ```

- Check quantization mode. Binary quantization (`BIN`) trades accuracy for speed.
- Use `TRUTH` to compare results against a linear scan:

  ```bash
  VSIM myset VALUES 3 ... COUNT 10 TRUTH
  ```

  This gives you the most accurate results for validation, but it's slow.

## Filtering issues

Filters silently exclude items if:

- A field is missing from the element’s attributes
- The JSON is invalid

> - A type doesn’t match the expression (e.g., `.rating > 8` when `.rating` is a string)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- A type doesn’t match the expression (for example, `.rating > 8` when `.rating` is a string)
```

Try retrieving the attributes with [`VGETATTR`]({{< relref "/commands/vgetattr" >}}):

```bash
VGETATTR myset myelement
```

Double-check field names, JSON validity, and value types.

## Unexpected memory usage

Memory issues may arise from:

- Large vectors (use `REDUCE` to project down)
- High `M` values inflating link graphs
- Large or deeply nested JSON attributes
- Storing raw `FP32` vectors (`NOQUANT`)

Use default `Q8` quantization and compact attributes to save space.

## Inspecting the graph

Use [`VLINKS`]({{< relref "/commands/vlinks" >}}) to examine a node’s connections:

```bash
VLINKS myset myelement WITHSCORES
```

- Helps you verify whether isolated or weakly connected nodes exist.
- Useful for explaining poor recall.

## Deletion spikes

> Large sets deleted via the `DEL` command can briefly spike latency as Redis reclaims memory and rebuilds HNSW linkages.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Large sets deleted using the `DEL` command can briefly spike latency as Redis reclaims memory and rebuilds HNSW linkages.
```
